# Chapter 2.2

It turned out that Helmut's clients were a professor, a self-styled cinematographer, and a conservationist; had Alexander known any of that ahead of time, he would never have agreed to come.

The good doctor, with his white beard, was called Sigmund Grim. According to the other two, he was one of the world's foremost biologists in the field of wolves, ungulates, the taiga, and so forth. As they hiked across the backcountry, toward the mountains from the crescent lake, he lectured for the camera on ecosystems and endangered critters, and about the adventures of his previous expeditions. He seemed constantly out of breath.

The younger of the two men gave his name as Rod, short for Rodrigo. He was the cinematographer. In practice, what that meant was that he carried a pair of digital cameras, a tripod, and seemingly dozens of batteries and yet still worried often and loudly that he should be saving his battery power for better footage. Somehow, he managed to convince Helmut to carry the heavier of the two cameras.

That left the conservationist, a woman named Tanya. Naturally, Alexander expected her to be the most annoying of the three, but he was wrong. Rodrigo, in his attempts to impress the woman, only just managed to edge her out.

"I just don't understand why we need a gun, you know?" he said, gazing at the ground through his camera's viewfinder. When no one responded, he continued. "I think I'd rather lay down my life for an animal than kill an animal to save myself. We have no right to be here, and if we can't coexist with them, then... You know?"

"That's how I've always felt, too," said the woman. "I mean, we're not a part of this world, and it's so hard to justify our impact on it. It's like the rules should be different here."

Helmut shot a subtle eye roll at Alexander as they hiked up a long, gentle slope, but said nothing. Alexander, however, could keep silent no longer.

"The rules apply everywhere," he said without turning to look at either of the filmmakers. "And the only rule is that the strong survive. The idea that you can choose to opt out of the food chain is pure arrogance, and a little humility, in this wilderness, often means the difference between life and death."

He stopped in his tracks and fixed his eyes on the white-bearded biologist, who wore a pair of dark glasses to hide most of his eyes. "Isn't that right, Dr. Grim."

Dr. Grim also stopped where he stood, and he lifted his face toward Alexander before raising one hand to adjust those glasses. His hand shook, perhaps just enough for Alexander to see, because he was watching for it. Grim removed his dark glasses as the others looked on, revealing an old, fading scar across his right eye. The eye itself was clouded over; he likely couldn't see out of it at all.

<!-- Is it weird that the filmmakers didn't know about this? I imagine they only just met him this morning, and the scar doesn't appear in the portrait on his book... Still kinda thin. We'll see if anyone else notices. -->

"How did you know?" asked Grim.

"I looked for it," said Alexander. "When wild things attack, they don't afford us special treatment. They go for the head to blind the enemy and to neutralize his weapons. The professor was lucky if he only lost an eye."

The doctor allowed the filmmakers a good, long look before donning his glasses once more. Helmut explained that modern wolves were becoming more aggressive, heedless of the threat once posed by humans. He blamed bloodlines mixed with wild dogs, who naturally viewed humans as a food source, and prohibitions on hunting that had allowed wolves to forget their fear of guns and fire. Alexander paid little attention.

Mankind had become weak.

They camped that evening in a hollow beneath a long ridge of a hill, amid the shaded shelter of a copse of ancient evergreens. Dr. Grim left them alone for a time, once they had made a fire, to relieve himself in the trees down the hill. Downwind.

But the filmmakers weren't ready to settle in just yet. Rodrigo pointed his camera at Helmut, and Tanya asked how he had come to be a guide in the wilderness.

"I first came here in my twenties," said Helmut. "I was a lawyer then, and one of my partners invited me on a bear hunt. I had no interest in shooting anything, but it was a chance to see the world, and I took it. Since then, I have been back to Austria only twice. That was thirty-four years ago. You remember that, don't you?"

Alexander had heard this story before, and had been listening to the darkness rather than to Helmut's words, but Helmut's unexpected question caught his attention. "Thirty-four years ago? I'm not sure I had even learned to talk yet."

Helmut's face went bright red in the firelight. "Of course! I don't know what I was thinking. You and I met... When was it? It would have been ten years ago now?"

But Alexander shook his head. "Ten years ago? I was still in the army."

Helmut blinked and glanced at his watch. "That's right," he said. "I must be more tired than I thought. Only, it seems I've known you for ages. Maybe one loses track of time out here."

To her credit, Tanya didn't press Helmut with further questions after this. Seemingly to change the subject, she asked Alexander, "What about you? Did you want to see the world?"

"No," he said. "I came here because I've seen enough of it."

He stood, drawing a deep breath and ambling to the edge of the firelight. He closed his eyes, listening rather than watching, recognizing that the fire had left his eyes ill-prepared to gaze into the starlit shadows of the forest. A raven called out overhead, and the grating, racous sound drowned out all others. Still, just before the raven's cries, he thought he heard something down the hill.

Snuffling. Chuffing. A long, shaggy flank pushing through brush?

The image sounded a warning in his mind. "Professor, I think it's time we all turned in."

"Quite right," said Dr. Grim, whose footsteps could be heard moments before his face became visible in the firelight. "It's not wise to wander too long alone in the dark, after all."

The others slept fitfully that night. Alexander woke first, well before dawn, and he went down the hill just as Dr. Grim had done, following the professor's trail. He found a place perhaps two hundred paces down the slope where the professor had paused, marked with deeper prints and footsteps that paced from side to side, trampling the grass. Near that place, he also found the prints of a large bear, pressed deep into the earth, with long claws.

How near had the bear come to Dr. Grim? Had it arrived moments later, curious about the man who had just left, or had it watched as the professor paced in that little clearing? Most perplexing was a third set of prints, which seemed to join the professor's in pacing round and round: bare feet, small and light, but without claws. *Human.*

A raven crowed overhead, greeting the rising sun.

<!-- I just realized that Alexander has probably known Helmut for like thirty years, but neither he nor Helmut is aware of that. -->

<!--

In this scene, we find out what the doctor and the other two passengers are doing in the wilderness, likely as a part of an interview that the young woman conducts while the younger of the two men films it. This tells us a bit of Alexander's backstory.

Or... I suppose we could cut back to Grier and Margaret as they prepare to go overseas. Grier has to meet the old woman and get her approval.

Also, for later, I was thinking Alexander should tallk to Charlie about some kind of memory they share only to then learn that the memory he has in mind is not something Charlie did but instead something Henri did. (That's Charlie's dad.)

I think the old man who's come with them is Odin, and what he wants to do is to stop Alexander from getting back to France in time to meet his brother. He doesn't know all ends, though: when he acts, he he acts with imperfect foreknowledge, and he kind of fucks up.

Also, here's a bit of conversation:

"I think you'll find our Mr. Drake, unless I miss my guess, is a warrior by vocation. Ex-military, but hardly retired; like the braves of this land's once-native people."

"All due respect, professor, that just don't make any sense."

"I'm sorry?"

"Native people. Nobody's native anywhere. The hard truth of God's cruel kingdom is there is no place on this Earth for any creature but what he makes for himself. The idea that any 'native' has an easier time here than you is just pretty racism."

-->
